GPT/OCR API

Client Background Client A leading tech firm in the USA Industry Type IT  Consulting Products  Services IT Solutions, Software Development Organization Size 100 The Problem Design and develop an API as a service backend, the API should be integrated with GPT and OCR technologies to extract documents it should be hosted on Azure Our Solution token  It takes username and password as a input and generate API_keytoken to run the other APIs apitemplatecreate-template  This is a Post request. It stores the created json template in the database and generates a token id. apidocumentupload  This api takes a file as an input. We can upload .pdf, .docx, .png, .jpg, .jpeg, .txt files. It has basically 2 parts. We can just upload the document or we can also provide template id to process the uploaded document according to the template id. apidocumentprocess  This api takes template id and document id as an input. It fetches the template and document from the database and uses the ocr method to extract the text from the document. This extracted text and template are then processed by gpt api which generates the final output. apitemplateall  This api fetches all the templates created by the user using create-template api. apitemplateupdate-template  This api can update the created template. apitemplatedelete  This api deletes the created template by giving template id. apidocumentall  This api shows all documents uploaded by user apidocumentdelete  This api deletes the document by document id. Deliverables All the APIs on the Azure server Tools used fastapi, gpt api, pytessaract, pypdf2 Languagetechniques used fastapi, gpt api, pytessaract, pypdf2, python Skills used python, Rest API development Databases used MS Sql Web Cloud Servers used Azure What are the technical Challenges Faced during Project Execution Main challenge in this project extracting text from images and pdfs and generate json output according to template How the Technical Challenges were Solved In the apis we can upload .pdf, .docx, .png, .jpg, .jpeg, .txt files. It has basically 2 parts. We can just upload the document or we can also provide template id to process the uploaded document according to the template id. It fetches the template and document from the database and uses the ocr method to extract the text from the document. This extracted text and template are then processed by gpt api which generates the final output.. Business Impact This will help users to directly upload any pdf or image and extract useful information in json format. Project Snapshots Summarize Summarized This project was done by the Blackcoffer Team, a Global IT Consulting firm.