CRM (Monday.com, Make.com) to Data Warehouse to Klipfolio Dashboard

Client Background Client A leading marketing firm in the USA Industry Type IT Services Marketing, promotions, campaigns, consulting, business growth Organization Size 100 The Problem The client requires a dashboard for a week in review and human resources. The dashboard should be dynamic whenever the client opens the dashboard, it should show the current week and should also have a dropdown choice option based on different time periods. So the client requires a meaningful KPI on the dashboard. Research Objective Taking the problem statement into consideration the following objectives are established. Objective 1 Getting access to the Monday.com site, Make.com, Google sheet, and Klipfolio. Objective 2 Connect Monday.com data to the Google sheet. Objective 3 Data Integration using make.com. Objective 4 Building KPIs using various calculations and formulas to get meaningful insights. Objective 5 Creating a dashboard from insight driven by KPIs. Solution Architecture 1. Data Integration Fig.3.4 Data Integration 2. Overall Architecture Fig.3.4.2 Overall Architecture Tools used Klipfoliomake.com Languagetechniques used Klip Formula Skills used Data IntegrationData ProcessingData Visualization Web Cloud Servers used Google Sheet What are the technical Challenges Faced during Project Execution During the project execution we faced following challenges1. Mapping the values in make.com from Monday.com2. Whenever the update is generated on Monday.com, a new row is added to the Google sheet. 3. Extracting insights from the data How the Technical Challenges were Solved To solve the technical challenges, we provided following solutions as follow1. For mapping the values from Monday.com to make.com, we got access as admin to reach out the columns id on Monday.com. 2. On make.com, we created multiple models linking each other based on the row id in the google sheet. 3. After completing the data integration, we use calculations to extract meaningful insights from the data. Business Impact Using this dashboard, a client can keep track of the employees work process. So he can analyze employee workflow nature. Project Snapshots Project website url Google Sheet Data Integration using make.com Monday.com List Of Employees listed on Klipfolio Klipfolio Dashboard Project Video Todo Board Part 1 Todo Board Part 2 Todo Board part 3 Census Board Part 1 Census Board Part 2