NER Task using BERT with data in XML-format

Client Background Client A leading tech firm in the USA Industry Type IT Services SaaS, Products Organization Size 100 The Problem The goal of this task is to create and implement a workflow that annotates PeoplePlacesOrganizations and assigns them a specific number (from a normdatabase). The NER-Task should be done by using Bert (NER-German or something similar). Our Solution The input to this first task is a text in XML-Format. It is important that the structuring text is not altered by the NER. This could be possible by tokenizing the XML-elements in a differentseperate way, to then run the NER with BERT and afterwards add the elements afterwards at the exact position where the initially were. The tags that were added by the NER than can be easily replaced with the required tags in the XML-format. Solution Architecture Input Data  XML Text Tokenization  NER Model  Replace NER Tags with XML Tags  Final Output Deliverables Python tool Documentation Installation Tools used VSCode For Python script Languagetechniques used Python Programming Language Models used Named Entity Recognition (NER) FuzzyWuzzytqdmFlairPandas Skills used Data LoadingData ProcessingData Restoring What are the technical Challenges Faced during Project Execution During the project execution, we faced the following challenges Parsing of the input XML file. Predicting the Name, Place and Organization. Rearranging the XML file to its origin form with the predicted value. How the Technical Challenges were Solved To solve the technical challenges, we provided following solutions as follow It was not possible by the beautiful soup library. So by using the logically function start index and end index we break the sentence. For predicting the NPO we used the flair ner-german model. To rearrange the file we used start index and end index function which can be split with a certain condition and we place the predicted value in it. Business Impact The client can know easily predict the Name, Place, and Organisation from XML containing file by using our python script model. Project Snapshots Fig. Input XML file Fig. Output XML file with predicted values. Project website url Github Project Video